---
name: "[Tech Chair -> Organizer] Recruit Associate Editor"
about: Request an organizer to recruit an Associate Editor
title: "[PRE-REVIEW] Recruit Associate Editor"
labels: pre-review
assignees: ''
---

<!--
## DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE OUTSIDE OF THE journalovi/jovi-workflows REPOSITORY
##
## This file is automatically updated in all repositories within the journalovi
## Github organization whenever the version in journalovi/jovi-workflows is
## changed, so any other edits will be overwritten. To update this file, make
## a commit or pull request at https://github.com/journalovi/jovi-workflows
-->

### Instructions for OC
- If there is anything in the list below that you are unsure of, tag the Tech Chair (@journalovi/tech-chair). Github IDs are listed on [People page](https://www.journalovi.org/people.html).

### Recruit an AE:

- [ ] Add paper to the `JoVI submissions` spreadsheet on JoVI Google Drive
- [ ] Post abstract, author names, link to paper, and a rough summary of the paper application domain and method, and a reminder to check the [ACM COI policy](https://www.acm.org/publications/policies/conflict-of-interest) to:
   - [ ] `#jovi_editors` Slack channel
   - [ ] editors@journalovi.org

### Once an AE is assigned to the paper:

- [ ] Add them to the paper Slack channel. (The channel name should be the same as the name of this repo. If you do not have access to this Slack channel yet, let the Tech Chair know at @journalovi/tech-chair.)
- [ ] Give them **Admin** access on this repository:
   - Under *Settings* -> *Collaborators and Teams*, add the Associate Editor's Github ID. Github IDs for Associate Editors can be found on the internal JoVI Editor spreadsheet.
   - Ensure their *Role* is **Admin**
- [ ] In the header at the top of `README.md` in this repository, replace the `TBD` under `AE:` with the Github ID of the AE.
- [ ] Create the following issues and assign them to the editor:
   - [ ] [Initial Editor Setup](new?assignees=&labels=pre-review&projects=&template=70_org_editor-checklist.md&title=%5BPRE-REVIEW%5D+Initial+Editor+Checklist)
   - [ ] [Recruit Reviewers](new?assignees=&labels=pre-review&projects=&template=71_org_editor-recruit_reviewers.md&title=%5BPRE-REVIEW%5D+Recruit+Reviewers)
- [ ] In the `JoVI - AEs and Advisory Board` spreadsheet on JoVI Google Drive, increase the tally for the AE in the column "AE-ing"
- [ ] If the editor has not done an experimental track paper before, schedule a Zoom meeting with them to go over the process.
- [ ] Had a Zoom meeting with the AE (or Zoom meeting is not needed)

### Once all checkboxes above are complete
* The OC assigned to this issue shall close it.
